give a clear list of features in some Grist versions that aren't in core (#1779)
gristlabs/grist-core: README.md

Grist is developed by [Grist Labs](https://www.linkedin.com/company/grist-labs/), an NYC-based company 🇺🇸🗽. The French government 🇫🇷 organizations [ANCT Données et Territoires](https://donnees.incubateur.anct.gouv.fr/toolbox/grist) and [DINUM (Direction Interministérielle du Numérique)](https://www.numerique.gouv.fr/dinum/) have also made significant contributions to the codebase.

The `grist-core`, `grist-desktop`, and `grist-static` repositories are all open source (Apache License, Version 2.0).
Grist Labs offers free and paid hosted services at [getgrist.com](https://getgrist.com), sells an enterprise product,
and offers [cloud packaging](https://support.getgrist.com/install/grist-builder-edition/).

> Questions? Feedback? Want to share what you're building with Grist? Join our [official Discord server](https://discord.gg/MYKpYQ3fbP) or visit our [Community forum](https://community.getgrist.com/).

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/118367/151245587-892e50a6-41f5-4b74-9786-fe3566f6b1fb.mp4

## Features in `grist-core`

> To see exactly what is present in `grist-core`, you can run the [desktop app](https://github.com/gristlabs/grist-desktop), or do [`docker run`](#using-grist). The absolute fastest way to try Grist out is to visit [docs.getgrist.com](https://docs.getgrist.com) and play with a spreadsheet there immediately, but if you do, please read the list of [extra extensions](#features-not-in-grist-core) that are not in `grist-core`.

Author: But then I need `-it` and `-p 8484:8484` and ....
Is that better?
Maybe I should be vaguer?

> To see exactly what is present in `grist-core`, you can run the [desktop app](https://github.com/gristlabs/grist-desktop), or do [`docker run`](#using-grist). The absolute fastest way to try Grist out is to visit [docs.getgrist.com](https://docs.getgrist.com) and play with a spreadsheet there immediately, but if you do, please read the list of [extra extensions](#features-not-in-grist-core) that are not in `grist-core`.

Author: Will just say use docker

If you are curious about where Grist is heading, see [our roadmap](https://github.com/gristlabs/grist-core/projects/1), drop a question in [our forum](https://community.getgrist.com), or browse [our extensive documentation](https://support.getgrist.com).

## Features not in `grist-core`

> If you evaluate Grist by using the hosted version at [getgrist.com](https://getgrist.com), be aware that it includes some extensions to Grist that aren't present in `grist-core`. To be sure you're seeing exactly what is present in `grist-core`, you can run the [desktop app](https://github.com/gristlabs/grist-desktop), or do [`docker run`](#using-grist). Here is a list of features you may see in Grist Labs hosting or enterprise offerings that are not in `grist-core`, in chronological order of creation.

Reviewer: "Here is a list of features you may see in Grist Labs hosting or enterprise offerings" -> "Here is a list of features you may see in Grist Labs' hosting or Enterprise offerings"

>   * (2022) With [GristConnect](https://support.getgrist.com/install/grist-connect/) any site that has plugins for letting Discourse use its logins (such as WordPress) can also let Grist use its logins. This was a niche feature built for a client, and with `grist-core` OIDC and SAML support covers most use-cases. You probably don't care about this.

Reviewer: > This was a niche feature built for a client, and with `grist-core` OIDC and SAML support covers most use-cases. You probably don't care about this.

A bit hard to parse. Maybe:

> GristConnect is a niche feature built for a specific client which you probably don't care about – OIDC and SAML support *is* part of `grist-core` and covers most authentication use cases.

  * (2022) An [azure back-end for snapshots](https://support.getgrist.com/install/cloud-storage/#azure). With `grist-core` you can store snapshots in anything S3-compatible, which covers a lot of services, but not Azure specifically. Unless you are a Microsoft shop you probably don't care about this.

  * (2024) Native support for [audit log streaming](https://support.getgrist.com/install/audit-log-streaming/). With `grist-core` a lot of useful information is logged, but not organized specifically with auditing in mind. Enterprises may care about this.

>   * (2025) [Advanced Admin Controls](https://support.getgrist.com/admin-controls/). This a special page for a Grist installation administrator to monitor and edit user access to resources. It uses a special set of administrative endpoints. With `grist-core`, these administrative operations have not been streamlined. If you're going to be running a large Grist installation, with employees coming and going, you may care about this.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to add this? (I don't know if the below is true, FWIW)

> With `grist-core`, these administrative operations have not been streamlined but are accessible with the API.

## Features not in `grist-core`

If you evaluate Grist by using the hosted version at [getgrist.com](https://getgrist.com), be aware that it includes some extensions to Grist that aren't present in `grist-core`. To be sure you're seeing exactly what is present in `grist-core`, you can run the [desktop app](https://github.com/gristlabs/grist-desktop), or use [`docker`](#using-grist). Here is a list of features you may see in Grist Labs' hosting or enterprise offerings that are not in `grist-core`, in chronological order of creation. If self-hosting, you can get access to a free trial of all of them using the Enterprise toggle on the [Admin Panel](https://support.getgrist.com/admin-panel/).

  * [GristConnect](https://support.getgrist.com/install/grist-connect/) (2022)
    - Any site that has plugins for letting Discourse use its logins (such as WordPress) can also let Grist use its logins.
    - GristConnect is a niche feature built for a specific client which you probably don't care about – `OIDC` and `SAML` support *is* part of `grist-core` and covers most authentication use cases.

>   * [Azure Back-end for Document Storage](https://support.getgrist.com/install/cloud-storage/#azure) (2022)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [Azure back-end for document storage](https://support.getgrist.com/install/cloud-storage/#azure) (2022)
```

    - With `grist-core` you can store snapshots in anything S3-compatible, which covers a lot of services, but not Azure specifically. The Azure back-end fills that gap.
	- Unless you are a Microsoft shop you probably don't care about this.
  * [Audit Log Streaming](https://support.getgrist.com/install/audit-log-streaming/) (2024)
    - With `grist-core` a lot of useful information is logged, but not organized specifically with auditing in mind. Audit log streaming supplies that organization, and a UI for setting things up.
	- Enterprises may care about this.
  * [Advanced Admin Controls](https://support.getgrist.com/admin-controls/) (2025)
    - This a special page for a Grist installation administrator to monitor and edit user access to resources.

> 	- It uses a special set of administrative endpoints. With `grist-core`, these administrative operations have not been streamlined.

Author: Nobody has spent time trying to solve the same tasks those endpoints solve in grist-core. So any rough edges are rough. I think the main things the endpoints do are bulk queries GETs. There's one action relating to deleting users. I'm not an expert, didn't write the code or review it, just seemed a lot of work and if the same work had been put into grist-core I'm sure it would have some better endpoints. Maybe someday someone else will be able to justify putting in that work.

	- If you're going to be running a large Grist installation, with employees coming and going, you may care about this.
  * [Grist Assistant](https://support.getgrist.com/assistant/#assistant) (2025)
    - There is an earlier AI Formula Assistant in `grist-core` to help set up formulas, but the newer assistant can help with a wider range of tasks like building tables and dashboards and modifying data.
	- If you have many users who need help building documents or working with data, you may care about this one.
  * [Invite Notifications](https://support.getgrist.com/self-managed/#how-do-i-set-up-email-notifications) (2025)
    - When a user is added to a document, or a workspace, or a site, with email notifications they will get emailed a link to access the resource.
	- This link isn't special, with `grist-core` you can just send a link yourself or a colleague.

> 	- For a big Grist installation with users who aren't in close communication, emails might be nice? Hard to guess if you'll care about this one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- For a big Grist installation with users who aren't in close communication it might be beneficial, but this is very dependent on what level of automated communication you need.
```
Proposing a minor phrasing tweak to remove the question, which felt a little odd.
